# BreastCancer-Biomarkers
# Overview
This GitHub repository contains the data files and analysis code used in the scientific paper titled "Integrating Machine Learning and Bioinformatics Approaches for Identifying Novel Diagnostic Gene Biomarkers in Breast Cancer".

# Contents:
## Data: 
Includes all the transcriptomic data required for analysis.
## Codes: 
Contains the R scripts necessary to reproduce all analyses.
## Results: 
Contains the results generated by executing the R scripts.

https://github.com/tahminehmehrabii/BreastCancer-Biomarkers.git

# Reproducing the results

To reproduce the results, the following R scripts were executed:

## 1. mergeDatasets.R:
Merged the microarray datasets based on their common genes.

## 2. trainValidSplit.R: 
Split the merged datasets into training and validation datasets.

## 3. batchCorrection.R: 
Corrected batch effects in both the training and validation datasets.

## 4. differentialExpressionAnalysis.R: 
Identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the training dataset.

## 5. enrichmentAnalysis.R: 
Provided insights into the biological significance of the DEGs.

## 6. geneCoexpressionAnalysis.R: 
Constructed co-expression modules in the training dataset using the CEMiTool package with default settings.

## 7. overlappedGenes.R: 
Identified genes that overlapped between the DEGs and the most significant module found by CEMiTool.

## 8. centralityAnalysis.R: 
Identified key genes in the protein-protein interaction (PPI) network.

## 9. LASSO.R: 
Selected candidate diagnostic genes from the key genes in the training dataset.

## 10. ROC.R: 
Evaluated the sensitivity and specificity of the candidate diagnostic genes in both the training and validation datasets.

## 11. trainEvaluateML.R: 
Verified the accuracy of diagnostic genes in distinguishing between normal and tumor samples using machine learning models.

## 12. SignallingAnalysis.R: 
Assessed signaling pathways in breast cancer (BC) and analyzed the correlation between biomarkers and these pathways.

# Required software

1. R (4.4.2)
2. RStudio version: 2024.12.0
3. GEOquery (2.74.0)
4. org.Hs.eg.db (3.20.0)
5. EnsDb.Hsapiens.v79 (2.99.0)
6. ggplot2 (3.5.1)
7. sva (3.54.0)
8. igraph (2.1.4)
9. CINNA (1.2.2)
10. ggraph (2.2.1)
11. limma (3.62.2)
12. clusterProfiler (4.14.6)
13. CEMiTool (1.30.0)
14. pheatmap (1.0.12)
15. glmnet (4.1.8)
16. pROC (1.18.5)
17. MLmetrics (1.1.3)
18. randomForest (4.7.1.2)
19. caret (7.0.1)
20. e1071 (1.7.16)
21. data.table (1.17.0)
22. RColorBrewer (1.1.3)
23. preprocessCore (1.68.0)
24. dplyr (1.1.4)
25. annotate (1.84.0)
26. forcats (1.0.0)
27. ggpubr (0.6.0)
28. readr (2.1.5)
29. graphlayouts (1.2.2)
30. enrichplot (1.26.6)
31. AnnotationDbi (1.68.0)
32. ggvenn (0.1.10)
33. ggrepel (0.9.6)
34. neuralnet (1.44.2)
35. nnet (7.3.20)
36. NeuralNetTools (1.5.3)
37. h2o (3.44.0.3)












27. ر







